architect/commands/implement-beads.md, before:

---
description: "Execute beads using loop (sequential) or swarm (parallel) mode"
argument-hint: "[--label <label>] [--epic <id>] [--mode <swarm|loop|auto>]"
allowed-tools:
  ["Task", "TaskOutput", "Read", "TodoWrite", "Bash", "Edit", "AskUserQuestion"]
---

# Implement Command

Execute beads using your choice of execution strategy.

**IMPORTANT**: This command combines loop (sequential) and swarm (parallel) execution modes with interactive selection.

## Execution Modes

| Mode          | Description                               | Best For                         |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Swarm**     | Parallel workers                          | Independent beads, maximum speed |
| **Loop**      | Sequential with step-by-step confirmation | Interdependent tasks, debugging  |
| **Auto Loop** | Sequential without confirmation           | Hands-off sequential execution   |

## TDD Execution Flow

All modes follow the same TDD pattern:

1. **Test beads execute first** (create test files, must compile)
2. **Impl beads execute after** (implementation + test validation)
3. **Tests run after each impl bead** (must pass to complete)
4. **Blocked if tests fail** (in all modes)

## Arguments

- `--label <label>`: Filter beads by label (e.g., `--label openspec:my-change`) - skips epic selection
- `--epic <id>`: Execute beads for a specific epic - skips epic selection
- `--mode <swarm|loop|auto>`: Execution mode (default: swarm)
- `--workers N`: Maximum concurrent workers for swarm mode (default: 5)
- `--model MODEL`: Worker model for swarm - `haiku`, `sonnet`, or `opus` (default: opus)

## Instructions

### Step 1: Validate Environment

```bash
# Check bd installed
bd version

# Check initialized
bd ready &>/dev/null && echo "OK" || echo "Run: bd init --stealth"

# Check Vitest configured (REQUIRED for test validation)
if ls vitest.config.ts vitest.config.js vitest.config.mts vitest.config.mjs 2>/dev/null | head -1; then
  echo "Vitest OK"
else
  echo "WARNING: Vitest not configured - test validation will be skipped"
  echo "Install: npm install -D vitest"
fi
```

### Step 2: Parse Arguments

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` for flags:

- `--label <value>` → skip epic selection, use this label
- `--epic <id>` → skip epic selection, use this epic
- `--mode <swarm|loop|auto>` → skip mode selection
- `--workers <N>` (default: 5)
- `--model <MODEL>` (default: opus)

### Step 3: Select Epic (Interactive Mode)

**Skip if** `--label` or `--epic` provided.

```bash
# Get all epics with openspec labels that are not completed
bd list -t epic --json 2>/dev/null | jq -r '
  .[] |
  select(.status == "pending" or .status == "in_progress") |
  "\(.id)\t\(.title)\t\(.status)\t\(.labels | map(select(startswith("openspec:"))) | join(","))"
'
```

**Present Available Epics:**

Use AskUserQuestion:

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Select an epic to implement:"
- header: "Epic"
- options:
  - label: "<epic-title-1>"
    description: "<epic-id> | openspec:<name> | N ready beads"
  - label: "<epic-title-2>"
    description: "<epic-id> | openspec:<name> | N ready beads"
  ... (one option per available epic, max 4)
```

**Handle Selection:**

- If user selects an epic → extract the `openspec:<name>` label for filtering
- If user selects "Other" → use their custom input (label or epic ID)

**Edge Cases:**

- No epics found → "No epics found. Run `/create-beads` to create beads from an OpenSpec change."
- No ready beads → "No ready beads. All beads may be completed or blocked."

### Step 4: Determine Execution Mode

**Default: Swarm mode** (parallel workers for maximum speed).

- If `--mode loop` → use Loop mode (sequential with confirmation)
- If `--mode auto` → use Auto Loop mode (sequential without confirmation)
- If no `--mode` provided → use Swarm mode (default)

### Step 5: Execute Based on Mode

---

## MODE: SWARM

Execute beads using parallel worker agents.

### Swarm Step 1: Retrieve Beads

```bash
bd list --json -l "<label>"
```

Parse the JSON to build a task graph with dependencies.

### Swarm Step 2: Build Dependency Graph

From the beads JSON, extract:

- `id`: Bead identifier
- `title` or `description`: Task name
- `depends_on`: Array of blocking bead IDs
- `status`: pending, in_progress, completed

**A bead is "ready" when:**

- Status is `pending`
- All beads in `depends_on` have status `completed`

### Swarm Step 3: Spawn Workers

For each ready bead (up to `--workers` limit):

1. Mark bead as in_progress:

   ```bash
   bd update <id> --status in_progress
   ```

2. Launch worker agent using Task tool:

   ```
   Use Task tool with:
   - subagent_type: "general-purpose"
   - model: <selected model>
   - run_in_background: true
   - prompt: |
       Execute this bead task:

       Bead ID: <id>
       Title: <title>
       Bead Type: <test | impl | non-testable>

       ## Task Description
       <full bead description from bd show>

       ## Instructions
       1. Read the files mentioned
       2. Make the required changes (use LSP tools for TypeScript: documentSymbol, findReferences, goToDefinition)
       3. Run verification commands in exit criteria

       ## Test Validation (for impl beads only)
       If this bead has label `type:impl`:
       4. Find associated test file from bead description
       5. Run tests: `npx vitest run <test-file-path> --reporter=verbose`
       6. If tests FAIL: Output "BEAD BLOCKED: <id> - Tests failed: <summary>"
       7. If tests PASS: Continue to completion

       ## OpenSpec Update
       8. If this bead has an `openspec:` label: Edit `openspec/changes/<name>/tasks.md` to mark the corresponding task as `[x]`
       9. Report success or failure

       When complete, output: "BEAD COMPLETE: <id>"
       If blocked, output: "BEAD BLOCKED: <id> - <reason>"
   ```

3. Track worker assignment: `worker_id → bead_id`

### Swarm Step 4: Monitor and Manage Workers (CRITICAL LOOP)

**CRITICAL: You MUST stay in this monitoring loop until ALL beads are complete or blocked. DO NOT exit after spawning workers.**

```
WHILE (pending_beads > 0 OR active_workers > 0):

    1. WAIT for any worker to complete:
       - Call TaskOutput(task_id, block=true, timeout=60000) for each active worker
       - This blocks until a worker finishes or times out

    2. WHEN a worker completes:
       - Parse output for "BEAD COMPLETE: <id>" or "BEAD BLOCKED: <id>"
       - If COMPLETE:
         - Run: bd close <id> --reason "Done"
         - Remove from active_workers
       - If BLOCKED:
         - Run: bd update <id> --status blocked
         - Report the blocking reason
         - Remove from active_workers

    3. UPDATE dependency graph:
       - Refresh ready beads: bd ready -l "<label>" --json
       - Identify newly unblocked beads (dependencies now satisfied)

    4. SPAWN replacement workers:
       - For each newly ready bead (up to --workers limit):
         - Mark as in_progress
         - Launch worker agent (same as Swarm Step 3)
         - Add to active_workers

    5. REPORT progress:
       - Show: "Progress: X/Y beads complete, Z active workers, W blocked"

    6. CONTINUE the loop (go back to step 1)

END WHILE
```

**Exit conditions (ONLY exit when one of these is true):**

- All beads have status `completed` → Success
- All remaining beads are `blocked` with no active workers → Blocked state
- No more ready beads AND no active workers → Done

**DO NOT exit just because you spawned workers. You MUST wait for them to finish and spawn new workers for unblocked beads.**

---

## MODE: LOOP / AUTO LOOP

Execute beads iteratively until all ready tasks are complete.

### Loop Step 1: Find Ready Work

```bash
bd ready -l "<label>"
```

Shows tasks with no blockers, sorted by priority.

### Loop Step 2: Pick a Task

Select the highest priority ready task. Note its ID.

### Loop Step 3: Read Task Details

```bash
bd show <id>
```

The task description should be self-contained with requirements, acceptance criteria, and files to modify.

### Loop Step 4: Start Working

```bash
bd update <id> --status in_progress
```

### Loop Step 5: Implement the Task

Follow the task description:

1. Read the files mentioned
2. Make the required changes
3. Run any tests/verification in acceptance criteria

**TypeScript LSP (when available):** For TypeScript/JavaScript code, use LSP tools for better accuracy:

- `documentSymbol` - Find symbols in a file
- `findReferences` - Find all usages of a symbol
- `goToDefinition` - Navigate to symbol definition
- `workspaceSymbol` - Search symbols across workspace

### Loop Step 5.5: Run Tests (for implementation beads)

**Skip if** bead has label `type:test` or `no-test:*` (test beads and non-testable beads don't run test validation)

**For implementation beads (label `type:impl`):**

1. **Find associated test file:**
   - Parse bead description for "Test File:" path
   - Or derive from implementation file: `src/foo.ts` → `src/foo.test.ts`

2. **Run tests:**

   ```bash
   npx vitest run <test-file-path> --reporter=verbose
   ```

3. **Validate result:**
   - Exit code 0 → Tests pass → Proceed to close bead
   - Exit code != 0 → Tests fail → DO NOT close bead

4. **If tests fail:**
   - Report which tests failed
   - Keep bead in `in_progress` status
   - Ask user how to proceed (Loop mode)
   - Mark as blocked (Auto Loop mode)

### Test Failure Handling (Loop mode)

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Tests failed for <bead-id>. What would you like to do?"
- header: "Test Fail"
- options:
  - label: "Review and fix"
    description: "Stay on this bead and fix the implementation"
  - label: "Skip (mark blocked)"
    description: "Mark bead as blocked and continue to next"
  - label: "Stop"
    description: "Stop the loop and review manually"
```

### Loop Step 6: Complete the Task

**Only proceed if tests pass (for impl beads) or bead is test/non-testable.**

```bash
bd close <id> --reason "Done: <brief summary>"
```

### Loop Step 7: Update OpenSpec (if applicable)

**IMPORTANT**: If working on an OpenSpec change (label starts with `openspec:`):

Edit `openspec/changes/<name>/tasks.md` to mark that task complete:

```markdown
# Before

- [ ] Task description here

# After

- [x] Task description here
```

### Loop Step 8: Repeat or Pause

**In Loop mode (step):** Use AskUserQuestion to pause for human control.

**In Auto Loop mode:** Continue to next ready bead immediately.

**Before pausing, output execution status:**

```
===============================================================
BEAD COMPLETED: <bead-id>
===============================================================

Progress: N/M beads complete

EXECUTION ORDER (remaining):
  Next → <bead-id>: <title> (P0)
  Then → <bead-id>: <title> (P0)
  Then → <bead-id>: <title> (P1, blocked until P0 done)
===============================================================
```

**Then use AskUserQuestion (Loop mode only):**

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Bead complete. Next: <next-bead-id> (<title>). Continue?"
- header: "Next step"
- options:
  - label: "Continue (Recommended)"
    description: "Proceed to <next-bead-id>: <title>"
  - label: "Stop"
    description: "End the implementation loop here"
  - label: "<other-bead-id>"
    description: "Skip to: <other-bead-title>"
```

Based on the response:

- **Continue**: Proceed to next in execution order
- **Stop**: End the loop and report progress
- **Specific bead ID**: Work on that bead next

### Loop Completion

When no ready tasks remain, say: **"All beads complete"**

---

## Report Results

```
===============================================================
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE
===============================================================

Mode: <Swarm|Loop|Auto Loop>
Epic: <epic-title> (if specified)
Label: <label>

Results:
  Test Beads: X completed (test files created)
  Impl Beads: Y completed (tests passing)
  Non-Testable: Z completed
  Blocked: W beads (tests failed or other issues)
  Remaining: R beads

Test Summary:
  Total Test Files: N
  Tests Passing: P
  Tests Failing: F

===============================================================
```

## Progress Visualization

Press `ctrl+t` at any time to see:

- Number of active workers (swarm)
- Tasks in progress
- Completed tasks
- Pending tasks

## Context Recovery

If you lose track:

```bash
bd ready                        # See what's next
bd list --status in_progress    # Find current work
bd show <id>                    # Full task details
```

## Git Policy

**NEVER push to git.** Do not run `git push`, `bd sync`, or any command that pushes to remote. The user will push manually when ready.

## Error Handling

| Scenario               | Action                                                                         |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| No epics found         | "No epics found. Run `/create-beads` to create beads from an OpenSpec change."        |
| No ready beads         | "No ready beads. All beads may be completed or blocked."                       |
| Vitest not configured  | "WARNING: Test validation will be skipped. Install: `npm install -D vitest`"   |
| Tests fail (impl bead) | Mark bead as blocked, report failed tests, ask user (Loop) or continue (Swarm) |
| Worker fails (swarm)   | Mark bead as blocked, report error, continue with others                       |
| All beads blocked      | Stop, report blocking issues                                                   |
| Max iterations reached | Loop stops automatically; resume with `/implement-beads` to continue                 |

## Stopping

- Say "All beads complete" when done
- Run `/cancel-implementation` to stop early
- In Loop mode: select "Stop" at the pause prompt

## Example Usage

```bash
# Default swarm mode (select epic interactively)
/implement-beads

# With specific label (skip epic selection, default swarm)
/implement-beads --label openspec:add-auth

# Sequential with confirmation prompts
/implement-beads --mode loop

# Sequential without confirmation (hands-off)
/implement-beads --mode auto

# Full specification
/implement-beads --label openspec:add-auth --mode swarm --workers 5 --model opus
```

## When to Use Loop vs Swarm

| Situation                               | Use                |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Tasks depend heavily on each other      | Loop or Auto Loop  |
| Want to review each step                | Loop               |
| Many independent tasks                  | Swarm              |
| Want maximum speed                      | Swarm              |
| Debugging issues                        | Loop               |
| Large refactoring with phases           | Swarm              |
| Want to fix test failures interactively | Loop               |
| Tests are stable and expected to pass   | Swarm or Auto Loop |

Commit message:

fix: correct default swarm mode for implement beads

architect/commands/implement-beads.md, after:

---
description: "Execute beads using loop (sequential) or swarm (parallel) mode"
argument-hint: "[--label <label>] [--epic <id>] [--mode <swarm|loop|auto>]"
allowed-tools:
  ["Task", "TaskOutput", "Read", "TodoWrite", "Bash", "Edit", "AskUserQuestion"]
---

# Implement Command

Execute beads in parallel (swarm mode by default) or sequentially (loop mode with --mode flag).

## Execution Modes

| Mode          | Description                               | Best For                         |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| **Swarm**     | Parallel workers                          | Independent beads, maximum speed |
| **Loop**      | Sequential with step-by-step confirmation | Interdependent tasks, debugging  |
| **Auto Loop** | Sequential without confirmation           | Hands-off sequential execution   |

## TDD Execution Flow

All modes follow the same TDD pattern:

1. **Test beads execute first** (create test files, must compile)
2. **Impl beads execute after** (implementation + test validation)
3. **Tests run after each impl bead** (must pass to complete)
4. **Blocked if tests fail** (in all modes)

## Arguments

- `--label <label>`: Filter beads by label (e.g., `--label openspec:my-change`) - skips epic selection
- `--epic <id>`: Execute beads for a specific epic - skips epic selection
- `--mode <swarm|loop|auto>`: Execution mode (default: swarm)
- `--workers N`: Maximum concurrent workers for swarm mode (default: 5)
- `--model MODEL`: Worker model for swarm - `haiku`, `sonnet`, or `opus` (default: opus)

## Instructions

### Step 1: Validate Environment

```bash
# Check bd installed
bd version

# Check initialized
bd ready &>/dev/null && echo "OK" || echo "Run: bd init --stealth"

# Check Vitest configured (REQUIRED for test validation)
if ls vitest.config.ts vitest.config.js vitest.config.mts vitest.config.mjs 2>/dev/null | head -1; then
  echo "Vitest OK"
else
  echo "WARNING: Vitest not configured - test validation will be skipped"
  echo "Install: npm install -D vitest"
fi
```

### Step 2: Parse Arguments

Parse `$ARGUMENTS` for flags:

- `--label <value>` → skip epic selection, use this label
- `--epic <id>` → skip epic selection, use this epic
- `--mode <swarm|loop|auto>` → override default (swarm)
- `--workers <N>` (default: 5)
- `--model <MODEL>` (default: opus)

### Step 3: Select Epic (Interactive Mode)

**Skip if** `--label` or `--epic` provided.

```bash
# Get all epics with openspec labels that are not completed
bd list -t epic --json 2>/dev/null | jq -r '
  .[] |
  select(.status == "pending" or .status == "in_progress") |
  "\(.id)\t\(.title)\t\(.status)\t\(.labels | map(select(startswith("openspec:"))) | join(","))"
'
```

**Present Available Epics:**

Use AskUserQuestion:

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Select an epic to implement:"
- header: "Epic"
- options:
  - label: "<epic-title-1>"
    description: "<epic-id> | openspec:<name> | N ready beads"
  - label: "<epic-title-2>"
    description: "<epic-id> | openspec:<name> | N ready beads"
  ... (one option per available epic, max 4)
```

**Handle Selection:**

- If user selects an epic → extract the `openspec:<name>` label for filtering
- If user selects "Other" → use their custom input (label or epic ID)

**Edge Cases:**

- No epics found → "No epics found. Run `/create-beads` to create beads from an OpenSpec change."
- No ready beads → "No ready beads. All beads may be completed or blocked."

### Step 4: Determine Execution Mode

**Default: Swarm mode** (parallel workers for maximum speed).

- If `--mode loop` → use Loop mode (sequential with confirmation)
- If `--mode auto` → use Auto Loop mode (sequential without confirmation)
- If no `--mode` provided → use Swarm mode (default)

### Step 5: Execute Based on Mode

**CRITICAL FOR SWARM MODE: After spawning workers, you MUST enter the monitoring loop and wait for ALL workers to complete. DO NOT return control to the user after spawning. Stay in the loop until all beads are done or blocked.**

---

## MODE: SWARM

Execute beads using parallel worker agents.

### Swarm Step 1: Retrieve Beads

```bash
bd list --json -l "<label>"
```

Parse the JSON to build a task graph with dependencies.

### Swarm Step 2: Build Dependency Graph

From the beads JSON, extract:

- `id`: Bead identifier
- `title` or `description`: Task name
- `depends_on`: Array of blocking bead IDs
- `status`: pending, in_progress, completed

**A bead is "ready" when:**

- Status is `pending`
- All beads in `depends_on` have status `completed`

### Swarm Step 3: Spawn Workers

For each ready bead (up to `--workers` limit):

1. Mark bead as in_progress:

   ```bash
   bd update <id> --status in_progress
   ```

2. Launch worker agent using Task tool:

   ```
   Use Task tool with:
   - subagent_type: "general-purpose"
   - model: <selected model>
   - run_in_background: true
   - prompt: |
       Execute this bead task:

       Bead ID: <id>
       Title: <title>
       Bead Type: <test | impl | non-testable>

       ## Task Description
       <full bead description from bd show>

       ## Instructions
       1. Read the files mentioned
       2. Make the required changes (use LSP tools for TypeScript: documentSymbol, findReferences, goToDefinition)
       3. Run verification commands in exit criteria

       ## Test Validation (for impl beads only)
       If this bead has label `type:impl`:
       4. Find associated test file from bead description
       5. Run tests: `npx vitest run <test-file-path> --reporter=verbose`
       6. If tests FAIL: Output "BEAD BLOCKED: <id> - Tests failed: <summary>"
       7. If tests PASS: Continue to completion

       ## OpenSpec Update
       8. If this bead has an `openspec:` label: Edit `openspec/changes/<name>/tasks.md` to mark the corresponding task as `[x]`
       9. Report success or failure

       When complete, output: "BEAD COMPLETE: <id>"
       If blocked, output: "BEAD BLOCKED: <id> - <reason>"
   ```

3. Track worker assignment: `worker_id → bead_id`

**IMPORTANT: After spawning these initial workers, IMMEDIATELY proceed to Swarm Step 4 (Monitor and Manage Workers). DO NOT stop or return to the user.**

### Swarm Step 4: Monitor and Manage Workers (CRITICAL LOOP)

**CRITICAL: You MUST stay in this monitoring loop until ALL beads are complete or blocked. DO NOT exit after spawning workers.**

```
WHILE (pending_beads > 0 OR active_workers > 0):

    1. WAIT for any worker to complete:
       - Call TaskOutput(task_id, block=true, timeout=60000) for each active worker
       - This blocks until a worker finishes or times out

    2. WHEN a worker completes:
       - Parse output for "BEAD COMPLETE: <id>" or "BEAD BLOCKED: <id>"
       - If COMPLETE:
         - Run: bd close <id> --reason "Done"
         - Remove from active_workers
       - If BLOCKED:
         - Run: bd update <id> --status blocked
         - Report the blocking reason
         - Remove from active_workers

    3. UPDATE dependency graph:
       - Refresh ready beads: bd ready -l "<label>" --json
       - Identify newly unblocked beads (dependencies now satisfied)

    4. SPAWN replacement workers:
       - For each newly ready bead (up to --workers limit):
         - Mark as in_progress
         - Launch worker agent (same as Swarm Step 3)
         - Add to active_workers

    5. REPORT progress:
       - Show: "Progress: X/Y beads complete, Z active workers, W blocked"

    6. CONTINUE the loop (go back to step 1)

END WHILE
```

**Exit conditions (ONLY exit when one of these is true):**

- All beads have status `completed` → Success
- All remaining beads are `blocked` with no active workers → Blocked state
- No more ready beads AND no active workers → Done

**DO NOT exit just because you spawned workers. You MUST wait for them to finish and spawn new workers for unblocked beads.**

**WARNING: If you exit this command before all beads are complete or blocked, the implementation will be incomplete. The user explicitly expects you to wait for all workers and spawn replacements until done.**

---

## MODE: LOOP / AUTO LOOP

Execute beads iteratively until all ready tasks are complete.

### Loop Step 1: Find Ready Work

```bash
bd ready -l "<label>"
```

Shows tasks with no blockers, sorted by priority.

### Loop Step 2: Pick a Task

Select the highest priority ready task. Note its ID.

### Loop Step 3: Read Task Details

```bash
bd show <id>
```

The task description should be self-contained with requirements, acceptance criteria, and files to modify.

### Loop Step 4: Start Working

```bash
bd update <id> --status in_progress
```

### Loop Step 5: Implement the Task

Follow the task description:

1. Read the files mentioned
2. Make the required changes
3. Run any tests/verification in acceptance criteria

**TypeScript LSP (when available):** For TypeScript/JavaScript code, use LSP tools for better accuracy:

- `documentSymbol` - Find symbols in a file
- `findReferences` - Find all usages of a symbol
- `goToDefinition` - Navigate to symbol definition
- `workspaceSymbol` - Search symbols across workspace

### Loop Step 5.5: Run Tests (for implementation beads)

**Skip if** bead has label `type:test` or `no-test:*` (test beads and non-testable beads don't run test validation)

**For implementation beads (label `type:impl`):**

1. **Find associated test file:**
   - Parse bead description for "Test File:" path
   - Or derive from implementation file: `src/foo.ts` → `src/foo.test.ts`

2. **Run tests:**

   ```bash
   npx vitest run <test-file-path> --reporter=verbose
   ```

3. **Validate result:**
   - Exit code 0 → Tests pass → Proceed to close bead
   - Exit code != 0 → Tests fail → DO NOT close bead

4. **If tests fail:**
   - Report which tests failed
   - Keep bead in `in_progress` status
   - Ask user how to proceed (Loop mode)
   - Mark as blocked (Auto Loop mode)

### Test Failure Handling (Loop mode)

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Tests failed for <bead-id>. What would you like to do?"
- header: "Test Fail"
- options:
  - label: "Review and fix"
    description: "Stay on this bead and fix the implementation"
  - label: "Skip (mark blocked)"
    description: "Mark bead as blocked and continue to next"
  - label: "Stop"
    description: "Stop the loop and review manually"
```

### Loop Step 6: Complete the Task

**Only proceed if tests pass (for impl beads) or bead is test/non-testable.**

```bash
bd close <id> --reason "Done: <brief summary>"
```

### Loop Step 7: Update OpenSpec (if applicable)

**IMPORTANT**: If working on an OpenSpec change (label starts with `openspec:`):

Edit `openspec/changes/<name>/tasks.md` to mark that task complete:

```markdown
# Before

- [ ] Task description here

# After

- [x] Task description here
```

### Loop Step 8: Repeat or Pause

**In Loop mode (step):** Use AskUserQuestion to pause for human control.

**In Auto Loop mode:** Continue to next ready bead immediately.

**Before pausing, output execution status:**

```
===============================================================
BEAD COMPLETED: <bead-id>
===============================================================

Progress: N/M beads complete

EXECUTION ORDER (remaining):
  Next → <bead-id>: <title> (P0)
  Then → <bead-id>: <title> (P0)
  Then → <bead-id>: <title> (P1, blocked until P0 done)
===============================================================
```

**Then use AskUserQuestion (Loop mode only):**

```
Use AskUserQuestion with:
- question: "Bead complete. Next: <next-bead-id> (<title>). Continue?"
- header: "Next step"
- options:
  - label: "Continue (Recommended)"
    description: "Proceed to <next-bead-id>: <title>"
  - label: "Stop"
    description: "End the implementation loop here"
  - label: "<other-bead-id>"
    description: "Skip to: <other-bead-title>"
```

Based on the response:

- **Continue**: Proceed to next in execution order
- **Stop**: End the loop and report progress
- **Specific bead ID**: Work on that bead next

### Loop Completion

When no ready tasks remain, say: **"All beads complete"**

---

## Report Results

```
===============================================================
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETE
===============================================================

Mode: <Swarm|Loop|Auto Loop>
Epic: <epic-title> (if specified)
Label: <label>

Results:
  Test Beads: X completed (test files created)
  Impl Beads: Y completed (tests passing)
  Non-Testable: Z completed
  Blocked: W beads (tests failed or other issues)
  Remaining: R beads

Test Summary:
  Total Test Files: N
  Tests Passing: P
  Tests Failing: F

===============================================================
```

## Progress Visualization

Press `ctrl+t` at any time to see:

- Number of active workers (swarm)
- Tasks in progress
- Completed tasks
- Pending tasks

## Context Recovery

If you lose track:

```bash
bd ready                        # See what's next
bd list --status in_progress    # Find current work
bd show <id>                    # Full task details
```

## Git Policy

**NEVER push to git.** Do not run `git push`, `bd sync`, or any command that pushes to remote. The user will push manually when ready.

## Error Handling

| Scenario               | Action                                                                         |
| ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| No epics found         | "No epics found. Run `/create-beads` to create beads from an OpenSpec change."        |
| No ready beads         | "No ready beads. All beads may be completed or blocked."                       |
| Vitest not configured  | "WARNING: Test validation will be skipped. Install: `npm install -D vitest`"   |
| Tests fail (impl bead) | Mark bead as blocked, report failed tests, ask user (Loop) or continue (Swarm) |
| Worker fails (swarm)   | Mark bead as blocked, report error, continue with others                       |
| All beads blocked      | Stop, report blocking issues                                                   |
| Max iterations reached | Loop stops automatically; resume with `/implement-beads` to continue                 |

## Stopping

- Say "All beads complete" when done
- Run `/cancel-implementation` to stop early
- In Loop mode: select "Stop" at the pause prompt

## Example Usage

```bash
# Default swarm mode (select epic interactively)
/implement-beads

# With specific label (skip epic selection, default swarm)
/implement-beads --label openspec:add-auth

# Sequential with confirmation prompts
/implement-beads --mode loop

# Sequential without confirmation (hands-off)
/implement-beads --mode auto

# Full specification
/implement-beads --label openspec:add-auth --mode swarm --workers 5 --model opus
```

## When to Use Loop vs Swarm

| Situation                               | Use                |
| --------------------------------------- | ------------------ |
| Tasks depend heavily on each other      | Loop or Auto Loop  |
| Want to review each step                | Loop               |
| Many independent tasks                  | Swarm              |
| Want maximum speed                      | Swarm              |
| Debugging issues                        | Loop               |
| Large refactoring with phases           | Swarm              |
| Want to fix test failures interactively | Loop               |
| Tests are stable and expected to pass   | Swarm or Auto Loop |
